We left off on writing our methods for
our database and
talked about why we're gonna set up
another level of abstraction for
that to make to keep our database
functions somewhat generic enough to
help us out in the future if we want
to do anything else on the database.
So now we're gonna make some abstractions.
Interact specifically with
the notes in the database.
So let's do that.
So what we want to do first is let's
catch up on where we are on the notes.
And, Yeah, we're here.
Notepad, there we go.
Note crud will be the next one.
Anybody know what crud means?
C-R-U-D.
Anybody ever heard that term?
Yeah.
What is it?
>> Create, read, no.
Yeah.
Create, read, update, delete.
>> Yeah.
Pretty much, I don't know.
99% of every app you'll ever make
will be a credit app pretty much.
Unless you're like working on a game or,
yeah, something like that.
It's probably a credit app.
You're allowing someone
to create something.
You're pulling information
from a database,
you're updating something from a database,
and you're.
Probably deleting
something from a database.
So it's at the end of the day, it's just
like, how do I build a CRUD app, right?
And that's why there's so many
abstractions around so many things and
people make automations for so many things
because like, this is just a CRUD app.
Like, cool, this is Twitter, but
like, I'm just creating tweets and
deleting tweets and things like that, so.
To crochet.
So that's what we're going to do.
We're going to create some abstractions
to help us do crud on notes.
So first thing is we want to
create a note J S and our source.
So let's do that.
And then we're going to use
the abstractions that we made From
the database, because those are how we
were, we're never going to use the FS
module directly again to
interface with our database,
you're gonna get the FS module is like
SQL, we're not going to use it anymore.
We're gonna use these
methods instead of using SQL,
right, so let's import those methods.
I like that quick trick and most Vyas code
setups you can just type in like the name
of something that's already exported and
it'll kind of automatically import it for
you right.
So if I type in insert,
you can see it brings that in like that.
I could type them in and then from
here I can bring these in like that.
There we go.
Cool, so we have those.
And then when you think of CRUD,
it's not one-for-one, so
it's not like we're going to create
four methods, because you might be able
to read one or read many or update one or
update many or delete one or delete many.
So there could be many different,
Some functions you write to do to do crud.
So there really isn't just for
the ones we're going to do is be able
to create a new note, get all notes,
find matching notes, and
remove a note and then remove all notes.
So we got five here.
So let's start with creating a new note.
So to create a new notes.
We're just going to say
export cons new notes and
it's going to take in the note content
it's also going to take in tags because we
know our command has the ability to take
in tags so we want to take in those tags
as well so we got those tags it's
going to be async how do I know
it's going to be async well because I
know We're interacting with a file, and
every file thing is async if I didn't
know that I wrote these functions and
other all async so because these
functions are async, and I'm using these
functions inside the function I'm
making now my function has to be async.
Or I could just return the async
function and not do anything async and
just say, Hey,
this is just returning your promise.
When you use this function,
you will have to await it eventually, but
I know that I'm going to be
doing things before I return.
So I'm just going to go ahead and
make it a sync.
So we got that.
So now we can make our new notes and
which one of these do
you think we'll use to save
our note in the database?
Save DB.
>> Save DB, so
let's see what save DB does.
So save DB takes an entire DB and
overwrites the file with that db.
Is that the one we wanna use?
Do we wanna overwrite the entire
database every time we get a new note?
Yeah, we wanna use insert,
cuz insert takes in a note.
And just updates the note
array with that one note, and
it doesn't erase anything else.
So we want to do an insert and
not a save here.
So first, we need to make a note.
So I'm just going to say a new note,
and this is going to be an object.
I'm going to say the content is the note,
and
then I'm going to say
the ID is the date.now.
And then I'm just gonna say tags or tags.
I'm just gonna move that up like that.
Cool, so we got a new note.
Next thing we wanna do is save it so
I can say await,
InsertDB and I wanna insert this new note.
All right so now we have our new note.
And then from there we could
just return the new note.
Here I think I called it insert But
same thing you So,
are we doing is making this
note is going to be a string.
Some be a tag are.
It's going to be a string of
content that we type into terminal.
This is going to be an array of tags and
yeah, we're making objects.
We're saving it for inserted into the
database, which we know if you go look at
Takes that thing grabs the entire database
pushes our object into the array,
saves the database back to the file, and
then returns the thing that we gave it.
So that's exactly what we want.
So we have new notes.
Alright, the next thing we
need to do is get all notes.
This one's basically free.
So let's export this file.
As I say, it's basically free.
I mean, the database abstractions that
we wrote pretty much does this for
us automatically.
They don't really have to do much here.
So we can just say,
costs notes, you async here.
And this is just equals
just get the database.
Await getDB, and
then what I can do is I can just actually
just do structure like that and
return notes.
Right, because getDB is
gonna return an object.
That is this whole thing,
get rid of the users, and
I just want to get
the notes property from it.
So that'll get all the notes.
>> Can you clarify that destructuring?
On line 15.
>> Yeah, destructuring.
Sorry.
Let's talk about destructuring.
Destructuring is cool.
Let me just make a new
spin-off file very quick.
So I can illustrate that so
let's make a let's make some data here so
we have some data and
this data looks like this it has
let's talk about a basketball player so
in their skill so
they're shooting Is 99,
they can shoot really good,
they're dribbling, it's pretty bad.
They can't dribble.
And they're jumping is also really bad.
So they're like I don't
know how they got an NVA.
So they got that and now let's say,
I want to reference one of
these properties, right?
So let's say I want to reference jumping.
So I could say const jumping
equals data.jumping.
I could do that.
And that works.
That's totally fine.
But let's say I also want
to reference shooting.
So then I can say const shooting.
Equals data.shooting.
Okay, now that was annoying.
I had to do this twice.
So the first time it was fine, but now
I'm basically doing this dot thing twice.
I could do this in one
line by destructuring.
So what I can do is instead of having
these two, I could replace it with just
one line, and I can say I will come
back to the object in a minute.
I can say on the right hand side, I can
say the object that I wanna do structure,
in this case, the data object, and
I want to pick these properties off of it.
And the properties that I wanna pick
are gonna be the shooting property and
the jumping proper This one line is
equivalent to both of these lines.
What it's doing is it's making
a new variable called shooting, and
assigning it to data.shooting.
It's making a new variable called jumping,
and assigning it to data.jumping.
So these variable names must match with
the names of the properties of the object
in which you're destructuring.
And that's basically it.
That's That's how this works.
This also works with an array.
So if I had an array of data,
let's call it Nums.
And let's say I just want to get the SEC.
Let's say I want to get the first one.
Let's keep it simple.
I can say const.
I can restructure with an array like this.
And I just want to get the first one and
I'm gonna call it first.
So what this is going to do is it's going
to grab the first thing in the array and
assign its value to this
variable called first.
All right, and let's say I want
to get the first thing and
the last thing so now I can just
say skip This one, skip this one,
skip this one, and give me the last one.
But you'll probably do something
like this instead, just so
people don't look at you funny.
So yeah, destructuring works for
objects and arrays.
Not to be confused with what's
just something else that looks
just like destruction,
but it's not destruction.
I can't think of the name of it.
If I come across it, I'll see it, but
the same syntax can do something very
different in a different context.
But when you see a variable name to
the left of it, that's destructed.
Okay, you can also destructure inside
of a function argument as well.
All right, so
if I have a function called action.
Like this and
it takes in like a config object.
This object's got like, hell of stuff
on it like config.this, config.that.
If I can just skip that and just like
cool, Let me stretch this object and
give me that thing that I want and the
other thing on that object that I want,
and some more things I want,
and then everything else,
I'm just gonna say dot dot dot rest or
whatever I want to call it.
So this is basically me plucking
these three properties off
of the object that I know
is coming into action.
Assigning them their own names, and then
everything else on the object that isn't
these three, make an entirely
new object and call it rest.
So I went from just having one argument
for this whole object to basically for
this one, this one, this one and a whole
new object with everything on the original
object that aren't these three That's
called a spread operator or rest.
Cool.
Any other questions?
>> Related to the inserting or
reading or the crud operations.
>> Yep.
>> We wanna handle the scenario where one
person may be reading while that other
person is inserting
>> Maybe it's not important for
this example.
We're [LAUGH] no our app only works for
one person so we don't have to worry
about concurrency issues and
locking databases and locking files.
Because someone is inserting and
deleting we're assuming that is this.
This is not multi tenant.
This is one person on their computer But
yeah,
that is something you would have
to think about in a real app.
So whoever's doing that is definitely down
bad one time trying to figure that out.
And I'm sorry, [LAUGH] I'm sorry
you had to go through that.
But no,
we won't be considering that today.
That's a whole different can of worms.